# Inception

## Introduction

The Inception project is designed to introduce the concept of containerized infrastructure. The goal is to create a small and efficient containerized infrastructure using Docker Compose, adhering to specific rules and best practices. Each service runs in its dedicated container, and the entire setup is managed within a virtual machine environment.

## What is Docker?

Docker is a platform that allows developers to package applications and their dependencies into lightweight, portable containers. These containers run consistently across different environments, eliminating the "it works on my machine" problem. Docker simplifies software delivery by isolating applications from their underlying infrastructure.

## What is Docker Compose?

Docker Compose is a tool for defining and managing multi-container Docker applications. Using a `docker-compose.yml` file, you can configure your services, networks, and volumes in a declarative format. Docker Compose simplifies the process of running complex setups by managing multiple containers with a single command.

## Key Concepts

### Docker Image

A Docker image is a lightweight, standalone, executable package that contains everything required to run an application, including the code, runtime, libraries, environment variables, and configuration files.

### Docker Volume

A Docker volume is a mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers. Docker volumes provide persistent storage for containers, ensuring that important data remains intact even if containers are removed or recreated.


## Project Structure

The project directory is structured as follows:

```
Desktop/42-Projects/Inception/
├── Makefile
└── srcs
    ├── docker-compose.yml
    ├── .env
    ├── requirements
    │   ├── mariadb
    │   │   ├── Dockerfile
    │   │   └── tools
    │   │       └── run_mariadb.sh
    │   ├── nginx
    │   │   ├── conf
    │   │   │   └── default.conf
    │   │   ├── Dockerfile
    │   │   └── tools
    │   │       └── run_nginx.sh
    │   └── wordpress
    │       ├── Dockerfile
    │       └── tools
    │           └── run_wordpress.sh
    └── secrets
        ├── db_pass.txt
        ├── db_root_pass.txt
        ├── redis_pass.txt
        ├── wp_root_pass.txt
        └── wp_user_pass.txt
```

- **Makefile**: Automates the building and running of the Docker Compose setup.
- **docker-compose.yml**: Defines the services, networks, and volumes.
- **.env**: Stores environment variables for configuration.
- **requirements/**: Contains subdirectories for each service (e.g., MariaDB, NGINX, WordPress), along with their respective Dockerfiles and configurations.
- **secrets/**: Stores sensitive credentials such as database passwords and application secrets, managed separately from source code for improved security and maintainability.

## Usage

### Steps

1. Before running Inception, ensure that you have the necessary dependencies installed. You may need to install the following packages:

   ```bash
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install build-essential -y
   sudo apt-get install docker.io docker-compose -y
   ```
2. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/jesuismarie/Inception.git
   cd Inception
   ```

3. Configure the `.env` file:
   - The `.env` file is located in the `srcs` directory and stores environment variables.
   - Example structure:
     ```
     USERNAME=<your-login>
     DOMAIN_NAME=<your-login>.42.fr
     CERTS=/etc/nginx/ssl/<your-login>-selfsigned.crt
     KEYOUT=/etc/nginx/ssl/<your-login>-selfsigned.key

     MYSQL_USER=<db-username>
     MYSQL_DATABASE=<db_name>
     MYSQL_HOSTNAME=mariadb

     WORDPRESS_TITLE=<wp-title>
     WORDPRESS_ROOT_USERNAME=<wp-admin-username>
     WORDPRESS_ROOT_EMAIL=<wp-root-mail>

     WORDPRESS_USER_USERNAME=<wp-user-username>
     WORDPRESS_USER_EMAIL=<wp-user-mail>
     ```

4. Update the `/etc/hosts` file:
   - Open the file with superuser privileges:
     ```bash
     sudo vim /etc/hosts
     ```
   - Add the following line, replacing `<your-login>` with your login and `x.x.x.x` with the IP address of your virtual machine:
     ```
     x.x.x.x <your-login>.42.fr www.<your-login>.42.fr
     ```
   - Save and exit the file.

5. Build and start the containers using the Makefile:
   ```bash
   make
   ```

6. Access the infrastructure:
   - Open `https://<your-login>.42.fr` in your browser to access the WordPress website.

### Additional Commands

- Stop containers and clean up all containers:
  ```bash
  make down
  ```
- Start containers:
  ```bash
  make start
  ```
- Stop containers:
  ```bash
  make stop
  ```
- Clean up all containers, volumes and network:
  ```bash
  make fclean
  ```
- Rebuild the setup:
  ```bash
  make re
  ```

## Project Features

### Mandatory

- **NGINX**: Provides secure HTTPS access using TLSv1.2 or TLSv1.3. (port 443).
- **WordPress**: PHP-FPM configured for content management.
- **MariaDB**: Backend database for WordPress.
- **Volumes**: Separate storage for WordPress files and database.
- **Network**: Custom Docker network connecting all containers.